In this video you will learn about another type of variable.
This one is called a boolean.
It's named after a logician and statistician named Boole.
Okay, so a boolean is very, very simple.
It's the basis of many fundamental circuits and logic gates.
And basically a Boolean variable can only take on one of two values true or false, which is sometimes
numerically coded as 1 or 0.
There are reserved keywords in Python for Boolean expressions.
So in particular we have true.
Now notice that the font here is black.
And now when I type true it turns into a blue okay.
So I can run this code.
And it tells me that true is true.
And of course there's also another one for false.
And false is false.
Now notice the capitalization here.
So this becomes blue.
And that was a reserved keyword.
If I would write out true like this, then it remains black.
And if I run this, I get an error because true is not defined.
And if I use all caps, then also we get an error that true is not defined.
So this is not a variable that Python recognizes because we haven't defined it to be anything.
So I can create a variable.
I can say true equals 7.4.
Now this is fine I have a variable called true.
But that is different from this true.
And here we also get an error because as I've mentioned this is a reserved special term in Python.
So we cannot say we cannot use this as a variable name like any other variable name.
Okay.
So we have true and we have false.
And what do we do with these.
Well these can also be the result of a comparison.
So if we want to know if two variables are equal to each other.
Perhaps this is two outcomes of two different operations, and we want to know if the impact of these
two operations was the same.
We can use a double equal sign like this.
So now we get the answer of true.
Now notice this is very different from a single equal sign that we use to create assignments.
That and that's what we were doing previously like here creating a list.
And we assign this list into this variable.
That is one equal sign.
What we are doing here is saying using two equal signs.
And here you can think of the difference as saying four equals four.
So this is an assignment.
This is a statement that we are making.
And then with a double equal sign like this we're not making a statement.
We're asking a question.
So this is a question we are asking Python.
Are these two things equal to each other?
Well, okay.
Without the question mark, that's not going to be valid Python code.
But essentially here we are asking a question and the answer is yes.
These two are equal.
And you know you can differentiate that from uh equals uh double equals 4.1.
And now we are asking the question does four equal 4.1.
And the answer is false.
These are not equal to each other okay.
Now here is an interesting question.
I would like you to guess whether the answer to this expression is going to be true or false.
I haven't run the code yet.
This ignore this.
This is from the previous run.
The question is, uh, are these two expressions equal?
Now, you already know from a previous video that, uh, they have different data types.
This is of type int and this is of type float.
So the question is whether Python will tell us that these two are equal or unequal.
And if you like to pause the video, make a guess.
You can try this yourself.
And now we are going to find that they are true.
So what does this mean?
Well, this tells us that Python actually has some flexibility built in.
So although these are technically distinct from each other because they have different data types,
Python actually is flexible enough to recognize that they are the same, even though the types are different.
Okay.
That said, you know we can try type A are the types the same?
And here the answer is going to be false because this is type int.
And this is type float.
Okay.
So let me see.
Now we have.
So I showed you equals.
And this gives us a boolean result.
We can also do comparisons using the less than and greater than signs.
So here's a question is four greater than five.
And the answer to that is no or false is for less than five.
And the answer to that is true.
Here's another interesting question.
For less than four is four less than four?
No it isn't, but is for less than or equal to four.
Here the answer is yes.
This it's not less than four, but it is equal to four.
So when we combine these two symbols less than or equal to, then we get an answer of true.
Okay.
Now I'm going to show you conjunctive comparisons.
So here is one comparison.
We are comparing what's on the left side to what's on the right side.
So let's do let's make this be 14 greater than four.
And here obviously the answer is true.
And we want to know.
So let me I'm going to do some spacing here.
So is 14 greater than four and is seven less than ten.
So here the answer is true.
And why is the answer true?
Because this part is true and this part is also true.
But how about if I say seven greater than ten?
Here the answer is false.
And why is this answer false?
Well, you know this part is true, but we're looking for an and and this part is false.
Okay.
So there's also or.
So here the answer is true.
And why is the answer true here.
Because we want to know whether this part is true or this part is true.
So if one of them is false and one of them is true, the answer is still going to be true.
If one of them or both of them are false.
So let's do this.
Then we get an answer of false.
And of course, if both are true, then that's also fine.
Here I also want to show you the application of parentheses and spacing.
Okay.
So we can run this again.
Now this also worked before I had the parentheses in there.
So this is a case where the parentheses are not strictly necessary for the code.
But they do help visually interpret what this line of code means.
And that is especially true in combination with spacing, because you know you can space like this.
And to me this looks a little bit confusing.
This is harder to interpret, even though for the code it's fine for the Python interpreter.
You know, this is also fine.
Uh, so this is, you know, um, unnecessary parentheses can often be useful in code, and I recommend
adding parentheses to visually group different pieces of code, even if it's not strictly necessary
for the Python code to run.
One more concept I would like to cover in this video is assigning variables to be booleans, so I can
have a variable.
Let's call this outcome and that equals true.
So here we go.
All I'm doing is assigning this value of true to this variable outcome.
And we can see what is the type of this variable.
It is of type bool.
Okay.
So now you know several different types of variables in Python.
You know ints for integers.
You know floats for floating point numbers.
Basically any number with a decimal point you know about lists and now you know about booleans or type
bool.
A string is another one you know about.
So you can see you're already building up quite a lot of knowledge about different variable types.
Okay.
Let's see.
Um, these can be a little bit confusing when we assign operations to the outcome.
So for example, if we want to say uh four equal maybe let's do something else.
How about this I will say um x equals two and y equals two squared.
Okay.
So I'll run this code to create these variables or overwrite them actually because I created them earlier.
So x equals to y equals two squared.
And now I want to know does x times two equal y.
So this is a confusing line of code when you first look at it.
Because you know there's three equal signs floating around here.
So let's ignore this visually.
Just get it out of your mind for the moment.
This is just saying you know we are assigning some value to some variable.
Here is the key question or the key operation that we are implementing here x squared x times two which
is four.
And then does that equal y which was defined as two squared.
So there the answer is yes or true.
And that value of true gets assigned to this variable outcome.
Okay.
So that is how you create variables in a boolean type.
Variables.